                                                       BASIC ON CLOUD

what is cloud and cloud computing ?
by using cloud we can access the data applications from internet at anytime in anyway,
cloud computing is the delivery of computing services like stronge and newtwoking.

cloud computing classifed into  two  types
1)service models: services models again divded in to 3 types,
1=>SAAS : SAAS Stands for software as a service  here everythings is automated.
          EX:EMAILS
2=> PAAS  : PAAS stands for Paltfrom as a services in paas we can run over code without an  infrastructure.
          Ex: lamdba.It allows multiple Organizations to use some Cloud to 
3=> IAAS : IAAS as stand for infrastructure as a services in this model cloud provided  services like,
             S3 (stronge ,database ,networking)
2)Deployment models : deployment model is used to deploy your applications to cloud or serves, deployment model is classfied into 4 types,
1=>Private cloud : A private cloud is a cloud computing environment that is exclusively dedicated to a single organization  private cloud as high security

2-=>Public cloud : Public clouds are managed by third Parties any one can access public cloud as low security commpared to other cloud.
                EX: AWS,GCP, AND AZUREE E.T.C.

3=>Hybrid cloud : Hybrid cloud is the Combination of both Public and private cloud. If the services are running on public  allowing data and applications to be shared between them. 

4=>Community cloud: It allows multiple Organizations to use some Cloud to Store the data

                                                            Software Developement life Cycle 

  WHAT IS Software Developement life Cycle ?
 The Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) is a systematic process used by software developers to design, develop, test, and deploy software applications to run (SDLC)  we need follow belown steps
1)Planning:To define the project scope, identify resources, and create a high-level project plan.
2)Defining  :you clearly define the requirements interms of Document   i.e Software requirement Specification Document -they will maintain the all the requirements of the application in this Document   
3)Design:.To transform the requirements into a blueprint for the software’s architecture and design.
4)implementation and developing: developers are writting/Devloping the code then they are checkin their code in centalized repository.
5)building :After developers checkin the code into the repository we are trying to checkout the code and  build the code.
6)Testing: To identify and fix defects or bugs in the software and ensure it meets the specified requirements.
7)deploying: deploying  into prodction servres
8)Monitoring : monitoring the application on prodction server.


What is the Waterfall :waterfall model  is old  method the manily disavantage of this method it's no feedback.

AGILE METHODOLOGIES : IN AGILE Methood we are devolping application in the from  spring each spring we can get feedback with in 7 days.

                                            DEVOPS
DEVOPS is basically culture that improves the org abillity to deliver their applications.
DevOps short for Development and Operations is a set of practices that combines software development (Dev) and IT operations (Ops)
The goal is to shorten the systems development life cycle and provide continuous delivery with high software quality.
THE STEPS ON DEVOPS LIFE CYCLE
1)GIT : We get code form github rep.
2)Maven : maven is a build tool used for check test cases
Ex: mvn test, mvn clean packages e.t.c.
3)NEXUS : NEXUS is store Artifact .
4) TESTING:By using sonarqube we can check code coverage.
5)CI/CD pipeline :Continuous Integration (CI): Developers regularly merge their code changes into a central repository, after which automated builds and tests are run. 
This helps catch bugs early in the development process.
Continuous Delivery (CD): Extends Continuous Integration by automatically deploying all code changes to a testing or production environment after the build stage. 
This ensures that software can be released reliably at any time.
6)DEPLOY :  we can deploy your apllications in diffrent paltfroms like AZURE CLOUD, AWS clous, GCP.E.T.C.



